So hey guys, welcome to the second
video on Node J series.
And in this particular video
I'll walk you through how you can
install Node js on your machine.
So it's very simple.
What you have to do is you have
to go to this website that is
nodejs.org so this is the official
website from no of Node js.
And here what you can see is,
you can see this big button
that is download Node js lts.
Now what is this?
LTS means LTS here means
long term support.
That means it's a stable
version of Node js.
So there are two versions of Node js.
So let me just search if you
have this download button here.
So you can see that you have this
LTS and you have a current versions.
So what happens is that how the Node
js team basically develops is.
So if you can see that this
is your LTS version,
basically the stable version.
And currently the team of Node js
is working on this feature, this
particular version that is 23.
So this is the current version.
This current feature has a lot
of more features which are
upcoming, but they are not stable.
They are not recommended to use
on the machine,
on the production machine, right?
I mean if you want to play around
with these things, with the new
features you can go with
current, but they are not stable.
So there can be bugs, there
can be crashes and definitely
not recommended for
the production use case.
So LTS is a long term support.
Now what will happen is once the team
finishes this, once the team
develops all the features,
they are going to Release a version
24 that is going to be an LTS.
So all the features developed
in 23 will be moved to 24.
One interesting thing is that
all the even versions are
always lts and all the odd
versions are something that,
that teams are working on.
So we have to go with this LTS
version and you can select your
platform, Mac OS is there, Linux
is there and Windows is there.
So you can select and using,
you can just say NVM Docker.
So NVM is fine.
Okay, so what you can do is
you can use this also or
it's a package manager.
Or what you can do is you can
just download it from here.
So I would recommend to go
with this pre built installer.
So select the version
22 or any LTS version.
Okay.
Because you might be watching
this video in future
when There is version 24.
Just make sure that you
are on an LTS version.
Select your operating system
and which, like which,
what do you Call which architecture
you are using
and just click on this download.
Now once you download the setup, what
will happen is you will be prompted
with like, you know, next, next,
next, agree and all that stuff.
And node js will be installed
on your machine.
I won't be doing this step
because I already have node js
installed on my machine.
Now once you have done all this
process, let's verify that if you
have node js installed or not.
So first command is if you say node
version, you can see
that I'm getting v.22.11.0.
That means my node
version is 22.1 1.0.
If you are getting 24 or if you are
getting any number that's fine.
But if you are getting any error,
that is where you might have
messed up with the installation
and you might want to re
verify that what went wrong.
Okay, But I'm sure 99% in the chances
you will be right, you will
be able to install this thing.
There is only just 1% chance.
And even, even if it is not working,
try restarting your machine
because sometimes, you know,
things do work after the restart.
One more thing is that when you
install node you can just do an npm.
So there is a tool npm,
which unofficially stands
for Node Package Manager.
So this comes automatically
when you install node js.
So you can see that I
have npm version 10.
So we are going to use this npm
Unofficial Full Form Node Package
Manager to, to create, manage,
install external dependencies.
So let's say I want to install
some extra package, I want
to install some extra
dependency so I can use npm.
Or maybe I want to create my
own packages so I can use npm.
Okay, this comes along
with the node js.
So when you install this node js,
this automatically installs npm.
So you can see here it says node
js includes npm this thing.
So this is by default shipped
along with the node js only.
So if you are getting these numbers,
congratulation guys, you have
successfully installed node js.
One thing you can do is you
can just say node and you can
play around with the Node js.
So you can write any JavaScript code
and to exit out just say Ctrl D.
So Control D, that is Ctrl D is going
to exit out this particular repl.
Okay, so with node it basically gives
you a console where you can play
around with the Node js where
you can write any JavaScript code
and that executes like a charm.